README.md, before:

# maNet - Real-time Messaging Application

<div align="center">

![maNet](https://img.shields.io/badge/maNet-Messenger-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![React Native](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Native-0.83-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-22.x-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Connected-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb)
![Socket.IO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Socket.IO-Real--time-010101?style=for-the-badge&logo=socket.io)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-FCM-FFCA28?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase)

**A modern, real-time messaging application built with React Native and Node.js**

[Features](#-features) • [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack) • [Getting Started](#-getting-started) • [API Documentation](#-api-documentation) • [Screenshots](#-screenshots)

</div>

---

## 📱 About

maNet is a **fully-featured, production-ready** real-time messaging application built as a portfolio project. All 5 development phases are complete, demonstrating proficiency in:

- Full-stack JavaScript development
- Real-time communication with WebSockets
- Mobile app development (iOS & Android)
- RESTful API design
- Push notifications with Firebase Cloud Messaging
- Authentication and security best practices
- OAuth 2.0 integration

## ✨ Features

### ✅ Phase 1 - Backend Foundation (Complete)

- **Authentication System**
  - Email/password registration and login
  - JWT token-based authentication
  - Google OAuth integration (web + mobile)
  - Secure password hashing with bcrypt

- **Real-time Messaging**
  - WebSocket server with Socket.IO
  - Instant message delivery
  - Online/offline status tracking
  - Typing indicators
  - Read receipts

- **Chat Management**
  - Direct messaging (1-on-1)
  - Group chat support
  - Participant management
  - Admin controls
  - Chat history

### ✅ Phase 2 - Mobile App Foundation (Complete)

- **Authentication Screens**
  - Welcome/Login screen
  - Registration with validation
  - Google Sign-In integration
  - Persistent sessions

- **App Architecture**
  - React Navigation
  - Context API for state management
  - AsyncStorage for persistence
  - Organized component structure

### ✅ Phase 3 - Real-Time Messaging (Complete)

- **Messaging Features**
  - Real-time chat with WebSockets
  - Typing indicators ("User is typing...")
  - Read receipts
  - Online/offline status
  - Photo sharing

- **Conversations**
  - Chat list with last message preview
  - Search conversations
  - Pin important chats
  - Message timestamps

- **Group Chats**
  - Create groups with multiple participants
  - Group management
  - Add/remove members
  - Admin controls

- **User Features**
  - Profile customization
  - Profile picture upload
  - Custom status messages
  - User search

- **Settings**
  - Theme selection (System/Light/Dark)
  - Account management

### ✅ Phase 4 - Security & Advanced Auth (Complete)

- **Google Sign-In**
  - OAuth 2.0 integration
  - One-tap authentication
  - Seamless account linking

- **Password Recovery**
  - Email-based password reset
  - 6-digit verification codes
  - Secure code hashing (SHA-256)
  - 15-minute expiration
  - Rate limiting (2-minute cooldown)
  - Brute-force protection (max 5 attempts)

- **Account Management**
  - Account deletion with full data cleanup
  - Password confirmation for sensitive actions
  - GDPR-friendly data handling

### ✅ Phase 5 - Push Notifications & Polish (Complete)

- **Push Notifications (FCM)**
  - Firebase Cloud Messaging integration
  - Background & foreground notifications
  - Tap-to-open specific chat
  - Token refresh handling

- **Mute Functionality**
  - Mute conversations (1h, 2h, 8h, forever)
  - Smart delivery (respects mute settings)
  - Auto-unmute on expiration

- **Final Polish**
  - Bug fixes and optimizations
  - Enhanced error handling
  - Performance tuning

## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Backend
| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| Node.js v22.x | Runtime environment |
| Express.js 5.2 | Web framework |
| MongoDB | Database |
| Mongoose | ODM |
| Socket.IO 4.8 | Real-time communication |
| JWT | Authentication tokens |
| Passport.js | OAuth strategies |
| bcrypt | Password hashing |
| Nodemailer | Email service |
| Firebase Admin | Push notifications |

### Mobile
| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| React Native 0.83 | Cross-platform framework |
| React Navigation | Navigation |
| Context API | State management |
| AsyncStorage | Local storage |
| Socket.IO Client | Real-time updates |
| @react-native-firebase/messaging | Push notifications |
| @react-native-google-signin | Google OAuth |

### Development Tools
- Git & GitHub
- nodemon (auto-reload)
- ESLint (code quality)
- npm (package management)

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Node.js** v20 or higher
- **MongoDB** (local or MongoDB Atlas)
- **npm** or **yarn**
- **React Native development environment**
  - For iOS: macOS with Xcode
  - For Android: Android Studio
- **Firebase Project** (for push notifications)
- **Google Cloud Console** (for OAuth)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/manetosx/manet.git
cd manet
```

### 2. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env

# Update .env with your configuration
# Required: MONGODB_URI, JWT_SECRET
# Optional: Google OAuth, Firebase, Email credentials

# Start the server
npm run dev
```

The backend will start on `http://localhost:3000`

### 3. Mobile App Setup

```bash
cd mobile
npm install

# For iOS (macOS only)
cd ios && pod install && cd ..

# Run the app
npm run android  # For Android
npm run ios      # For iOS
```

### 4. Firebase Setup (for Push Notifications)

1. Create a Firebase project at [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Download `google-services.json` and place in `mobile/android/app/`
3. Download Firebase Admin SDK key and configure in backend
4. See `FIREBASE_SETUP.md` for detailed instructions

## 📚 API Documentation

### Base URL
```
http://localhost:3000/api
```

### Authentication Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/auth/register` | Register new user | No |
| POST | `/auth/login` | Login user | No |
| POST | `/auth/logout` | Logout user | Yes |
| GET | `/auth/google` | Initiate Google OAuth | No |
| POST | `/auth/google/mobile` | Mobile Google Sign-In | No |
| POST | `/auth/forgot-password` | Request password reset | No |
| POST | `/auth/verify-reset-code` | Verify reset code | No |
| POST | `/auth/reset-password` | Set new password | No |

### User Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| GET | `/users/profile` | Get current user | Yes |
| PUT | `/users/profile` | Update profile | Yes |
| PUT | `/users/fcm-token` | Update FCM token | Yes |
| GET | `/users/search?query=` | Search users | Yes |
| GET | `/users/:userId` | Get user by ID | Yes |
| POST | `/users/delete-account` | Delete account | Yes |

### Chat Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/chats` | Create chat | Yes |
| GET | `/chats` | Get all chats | Yes |
| GET | `/chats/:chatId` | Get chat by ID | Yes |
| POST | `/chats/:chatId/participants` | Add participants | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/participants` | Remove participant | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/leave` | Leave group | Yes |
| PUT | `/chats/:chatId/pin` | Toggle pin | Yes |
| PUT | `/chats/:chatId/mute` | Mute chat | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/mute` | Unmute chat | Yes |

### Message Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/messages` | Send message | Yes |
| GET | `/messages/chat/:chatId` | Get messages | Yes |
| PUT | `/messages/:messageId/read` | Mark as read | Yes |
| DELETE | `/messages/:messageId` | Delete message | Yes |

### WebSocket Events

**Client → Server:**
- `message:send` - Send a message
- `typing:start` - User started typing
- `typing:stop` - User stopped typing

**Server → Client:**
- `message:received` - New message
- `message:sent` - Send confirmation
- `typing:user` - User typing
- `typing:stopped` - User stopped typing
- `users:online` - Online users list
- `message:read` - Read receipt

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### User Model
```javascript
{
  username: String (unique),
  email: String (unique),
  password: String (hashed),
  googleId: String (optional),
  profilePicture: String,
  status: String,
  lastSeen: Date,
  isOnline: Boolean,
  isEmailVerified: Boolean,
  fcmToken: String,
  // Password reset fields
  resetPasswordCodeHash: String,
  resetPasswordExpires: Date,
  resetPasswordAttempts: Number,
  lastPasswordResetRequest: Date
}
```

### Message Model
```javascript
{
  chat: ObjectId,
  sender: ObjectId,
  content: String,
  type: Enum['text', 'image'],
  readBy: [ObjectId],
  isDeleted: Boolean
}
```

### Chat Model
```javascript
{
  name: String (for groups),
  isGroupChat: Boolean,
  participants: [ObjectId],
  admin: ObjectId (for groups),
  lastMessage: ObjectId,
  groupPicture: String,
  pinnedBy: [ObjectId],
  mutedBy: [{userId, mutedUntil}]
}
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
manet/
├── backend/                  # Node.js backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/          # Configuration (firebase, email, socket)
│   │   ├── controllers/     # Route controllers
│   │   ├── models/          # Database models
│   │   ├── routes/          # API routes
│   │   ├── services/        # Business logic (notifications, email)
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Custom middleware
│   │   └── server.js        # Entry point
│   └── package.json
│
├── mobile/                   # React Native app
│   ├── android/             # Android project
│   ├── ios/                 # iOS project
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/      # Reusable components
│   │   ├── context/         # Context providers
│   │   ├── navigation/      # Navigation config
│   │   ├── screens/         # App screens
│   │   ├── services/        # API & notification services
│   │   └── utils/           # Helper functions
│   └── package.json
│
├── FIREBASE_SETUP.md        # Firebase configuration guide
├── LINKEDIN_POSTS.md        # Development journey posts
└── README.md
```

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### ✅ Phase 1: Backend Foundation (Complete)
- [x] Node.js + Express setup
- [x] MongoDB models
- [x] JWT authentication
- [x] Google OAuth integration
- [x] WebSocket server
- [x] RESTful API

### ✅ Phase 2: Mobile App Foundation (Complete)
- [x] React Native setup
- [x] Navigation structure
- [x] Authentication screens
- [x] API service layer
- [x] Socket.IO client
- [x] State management

### ✅ Phase 3: Core Features (Complete)
- [x] Chat list screen
- [x] Direct messaging UI
- [x] Real-time updates
- [x] User search
- [x] Profile management
- [x] Typing indicators
- [x] Read receipts
- [x] Group chats

### ✅ Phase 4: Security & Auth (Complete)
- [x] Google Sign-In
- [x] Password reset via email
- [x] Rate limiting
- [x] Brute-force protection
- [x] Account deletion

### ✅ Phase 5: Notifications & Polish (Complete)
- [x] Push notifications (FCM)
- [x] Mute conversations
- [x] Photo sharing
- [x] Pin conversations
- [x] Theme selection

### 📅 Future Enhancements
- [ ] Voice messages
- [ ] Video calls
- [ ] End-to-end encryption
- [ ] Multi-language support

## 🔐 Environment Variables

### Backend (.env)

```env
PORT=3000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/manet
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=7d
NODE_ENV=development

SESSION_SECRET=your_session_secret
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret
GOOGLE_CALLBACK_URL=http://localhost:3000/api/auth/google/callback

# Email (for password reset)
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USER=your_email@gmail.com
EMAIL_PASS=your_app_password
EMAIL_FROM=maNet <your_email@gmail.com>

# Firebase (for push notifications)
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_client_email
```

## 📊 Performance

- **API Response Time:** < 50ms average
- **WebSocket Latency:** < 100ms
- **Database Queries:** Optimized with indexes
- **Security:** 0 known vulnerabilities
- **Code Quality:** ESLint configured

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a personal portfolio project, but feedback and suggestions are welcome!

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 👤 Author

**Christos**
- Building in public on LinkedIn
- Portfolio project demonstrating full-stack development skills
- Actively seeking junior developer remote opportunities

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- React Native community
- Node.js ecosystem
- MongoDB documentation
- Socket.IO tutorials
- Firebase documentation
- **Claude Code by Anthropic** - Used as an LLM development assistant for debugging support, architectural review, and identifying edge cases. All implementation, integration, and final technical decisions were made and validated by me.
- Open source contributors

## 📞 Contact & Support

- **Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/manetosx/manet/issues)
- **LinkedIn:** Share your thoughts on my posts!

---

<div align="center">

**Built with ❤️ as a learning project and portfolio piece**

**All 5 Phases Complete!** 🎉

⭐ Star this repo if you find it interesting!

</div>

Commit message:

Add development approach section to README

README.md, after:

# maNet - Real-time Messaging Application

<div align="center">

![maNet](https://img.shields.io/badge/maNet-Messenger-blue?style=for-the-badge)
![React Native](https://img.shields.io/badge/React_Native-0.83-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-22.x-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js)
![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-Connected-47A248?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb)
![Socket.IO](https://img.shields.io/badge/Socket.IO-Real--time-010101?style=for-the-badge&logo=socket.io)
![Firebase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Firebase-FCM-FFCA28?style=for-the-badge&logo=firebase)

**A modern, real-time messaging application built with React Native and Node.js**

[Features](#-features) • [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack) • [Getting Started](#-getting-started) • [API Documentation](#-api-documentation) • [Screenshots](#-screenshots)

</div>

---

## 📱 About

maNet is a **fully-featured, production-ready** real-time messaging application built as a portfolio project. All 5 development phases are complete, demonstrating proficiency in:

- Full-stack JavaScript development
- Real-time communication with WebSockets
- Mobile app development (iOS & Android)
- RESTful API design
- Push notifications with Firebase Cloud Messaging
- Authentication and security best practices
- OAuth 2.0 integration

## ✨ Features

### ✅ Phase 1 - Backend Foundation (Complete)

- **Authentication System**
  - Email/password registration and login
  - JWT token-based authentication
  - Google OAuth integration (web + mobile)
  - Secure password hashing with bcrypt

- **Real-time Messaging**
  - WebSocket server with Socket.IO
  - Instant message delivery
  - Online/offline status tracking
  - Typing indicators
  - Read receipts

- **Chat Management**
  - Direct messaging (1-on-1)
  - Group chat support
  - Participant management
  - Admin controls
  - Chat history

### ✅ Phase 2 - Mobile App Foundation (Complete)

- **Authentication Screens**
  - Welcome/Login screen
  - Registration with validation
  - Google Sign-In integration
  - Persistent sessions

- **App Architecture**
  - React Navigation
  - Context API for state management
  - AsyncStorage for persistence
  - Organized component structure

### ✅ Phase 3 - Real-Time Messaging (Complete)

- **Messaging Features**
  - Real-time chat with WebSockets
  - Typing indicators ("User is typing...")
  - Read receipts
  - Online/offline status
  - Photo sharing

- **Conversations**
  - Chat list with last message preview
  - Search conversations
  - Pin important chats
  - Message timestamps

- **Group Chats**
  - Create groups with multiple participants
  - Group management
  - Add/remove members
  - Admin controls

- **User Features**
  - Profile customization
  - Profile picture upload
  - Custom status messages
  - User search

- **Settings**
  - Theme selection (System/Light/Dark)
  - Account management

### ✅ Phase 4 - Security & Advanced Auth (Complete)

- **Google Sign-In**
  - OAuth 2.0 integration
  - One-tap authentication
  - Seamless account linking

- **Password Recovery**
  - Email-based password reset
  - 6-digit verification codes
  - Secure code hashing (SHA-256)
  - 15-minute expiration
  - Rate limiting (2-minute cooldown)
  - Brute-force protection (max 5 attempts)

- **Account Management**
  - Account deletion with full data cleanup
  - Password confirmation for sensitive actions
  - GDPR-friendly data handling

### ✅ Phase 5 - Push Notifications & Polish (Complete)

- **Push Notifications (FCM)**
  - Firebase Cloud Messaging integration
  - Background & foreground notifications
  - Tap-to-open specific chat
  - Token refresh handling

- **Mute Functionality**
  - Mute conversations (1h, 2h, 8h, forever)
  - Smart delivery (respects mute settings)
  - Auto-unmute on expiration

- **Final Polish**
  - Bug fixes and optimizations
  - Enhanced error handling
  - Performance tuning

## 🧠 Development Approach

This project was designed and implemented as a real world, production style system.  
I focused on clean architecture, security best practices, scalability, and maintainability.

LLM tooling (Claude Code) was used selectively as a development assistant for debugging, code review, and architectural validation, similar to a senior engineering peer review. All code was integrated, tested, and finalized by me.
## 🛠 Tech Stack

### Backend
| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| Node.js v22.x | Runtime environment |
| Express.js 5.2 | Web framework |
| MongoDB | Database |
| Mongoose | ODM |
| Socket.IO 4.8 | Real-time communication |
| JWT | Authentication tokens |
| Passport.js | OAuth strategies |
| bcrypt | Password hashing |
| Nodemailer | Email service |
| Firebase Admin | Push notifications |

### Mobile
| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| React Native 0.83 | Cross-platform framework |
| React Navigation | Navigation |
| Context API | State management |
| AsyncStorage | Local storage |
| Socket.IO Client | Real-time updates |
| @react-native-firebase/messaging | Push notifications |
| @react-native-google-signin | Google OAuth |

### Development Tools
- Git & GitHub
- nodemon (auto-reload)
- ESLint (code quality)
- npm (package management)

## 📋 Prerequisites

- **Node.js** v20 or higher
- **MongoDB** (local or MongoDB Atlas)
- **npm** or **yarn**
- **React Native development environment**
  - For iOS: macOS with Xcode
  - For Android: Android Studio
- **Firebase Project** (for push notifications)
- **Google Cloud Console** (for OAuth)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/manetosx/manet.git
cd manet
```

### 2. Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
npm install

# Create environment file
cp .env.example .env

# Update .env with your configuration
# Required: MONGODB_URI, JWT_SECRET
# Optional: Google OAuth, Firebase, Email credentials

# Start the server
npm run dev
```

The backend will start on `http://localhost:3000`

### 3. Mobile App Setup

```bash
cd mobile
npm install

# For iOS (macOS only)
cd ios && pod install && cd ..

# Run the app
npm run android  # For Android
npm run ios      # For iOS
```

### 4. Firebase Setup (for Push Notifications)

1. Create a Firebase project at [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com)
2. Download `google-services.json` and place in `mobile/android/app/`
3. Download Firebase Admin SDK key and configure in backend
4. See `FIREBASE_SETUP.md` for detailed instructions

## 📚 API Documentation

### Base URL
```
http://localhost:3000/api
```

### Authentication Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/auth/register` | Register new user | No |
| POST | `/auth/login` | Login user | No |
| POST | `/auth/logout` | Logout user | Yes |
| GET | `/auth/google` | Initiate Google OAuth | No |
| POST | `/auth/google/mobile` | Mobile Google Sign-In | No |
| POST | `/auth/forgot-password` | Request password reset | No |
| POST | `/auth/verify-reset-code` | Verify reset code | No |
| POST | `/auth/reset-password` | Set new password | No |

### User Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| GET | `/users/profile` | Get current user | Yes |
| PUT | `/users/profile` | Update profile | Yes |
| PUT | `/users/fcm-token` | Update FCM token | Yes |
| GET | `/users/search?query=` | Search users | Yes |
| GET | `/users/:userId` | Get user by ID | Yes |
| POST | `/users/delete-account` | Delete account | Yes |

### Chat Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/chats` | Create chat | Yes |
| GET | `/chats` | Get all chats | Yes |
| GET | `/chats/:chatId` | Get chat by ID | Yes |
| POST | `/chats/:chatId/participants` | Add participants | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/participants` | Remove participant | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/leave` | Leave group | Yes |
| PUT | `/chats/:chatId/pin` | Toggle pin | Yes |
| PUT | `/chats/:chatId/mute` | Mute chat | Yes |
| DELETE | `/chats/:chatId/mute` | Unmute chat | Yes |

### Message Endpoints

| Method | Endpoint | Description | Auth Required |
|--------|----------|-------------|---------------|
| POST | `/messages` | Send message | Yes |
| GET | `/messages/chat/:chatId` | Get messages | Yes |
| PUT | `/messages/:messageId/read` | Mark as read | Yes |
| DELETE | `/messages/:messageId` | Delete message | Yes |

### WebSocket Events

**Client → Server:**
- `message:send` - Send a message
- `typing:start` - User started typing
- `typing:stop` - User stopped typing

**Server → Client:**
- `message:received` - New message
- `message:sent` - Send confirmation
- `typing:user` - User typing
- `typing:stopped` - User stopped typing
- `users:online` - Online users list
- `message:read` - Read receipt

## 🗄️ Database Schema

### User Model
```javascript
{
  username: String (unique),
  email: String (unique),
  password: String (hashed),
  googleId: String (optional),
  profilePicture: String,
  status: String,
  lastSeen: Date,
  isOnline: Boolean,
  isEmailVerified: Boolean,
  fcmToken: String,
  // Password reset fields
  resetPasswordCodeHash: String,
  resetPasswordExpires: Date,
  resetPasswordAttempts: Number,
  lastPasswordResetRequest: Date
}
```

### Message Model
```javascript
{
  chat: ObjectId,
  sender: ObjectId,
  content: String,
  type: Enum['text', 'image'],
  readBy: [ObjectId],
  isDeleted: Boolean
}
```

### Chat Model
```javascript
{
  name: String (for groups),
  isGroupChat: Boolean,
  participants: [ObjectId],
  admin: ObjectId (for groups),
  lastMessage: ObjectId,
  groupPicture: String,
  pinnedBy: [ObjectId],
  mutedBy: [{userId, mutedUntil}]
}
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
manet/
├── backend/                  # Node.js backend
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/          # Configuration (firebase, email, socket)
│   │   ├── controllers/     # Route controllers
│   │   ├── models/          # Database models
│   │   ├── routes/          # API routes
│   │   ├── services/        # Business logic (notifications, email)
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Custom middleware
│   │   └── server.js        # Entry point
│   └── package.json
│
├── mobile/                   # React Native app
│   ├── android/             # Android project
│   ├── ios/                 # iOS project
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/      # Reusable components
│   │   ├── context/         # Context providers
│   │   ├── navigation/      # Navigation config
│   │   ├── screens/         # App screens
│   │   ├── services/        # API & notification services
│   │   └── utils/           # Helper functions
│   └── package.json
│
├── FIREBASE_SETUP.md        # Firebase configuration guide
├── LINKEDIN_POSTS.md        # Development journey posts
└── README.md
```

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### ✅ Phase 1: Backend Foundation (Complete)
- [x] Node.js + Express setup
- [x] MongoDB models
- [x] JWT authentication
- [x] Google OAuth integration
- [x] WebSocket server
- [x] RESTful API

### ✅ Phase 2: Mobile App Foundation (Complete)
- [x] React Native setup
- [x] Navigation structure
- [x] Authentication screens
- [x] API service layer
- [x] Socket.IO client
- [x] State management

### ✅ Phase 3: Core Features (Complete)
- [x] Chat list screen
- [x] Direct messaging UI
- [x] Real-time updates
- [x] User search
- [x] Profile management
- [x] Typing indicators
- [x] Read receipts
- [x] Group chats

### ✅ Phase 4: Security & Auth (Complete)
- [x] Google Sign-In
- [x] Password reset via email
- [x] Rate limiting
- [x] Brute-force protection
- [x] Account deletion

### ✅ Phase 5: Notifications & Polish (Complete)
- [x] Push notifications (FCM)
- [x] Mute conversations
- [x] Photo sharing
- [x] Pin conversations
- [x] Theme selection

### 📅 Future Enhancements
- [ ] Voice messages
- [ ] Video calls
- [ ] End-to-end encryption
- [ ] Multi-language support

## 🔐 Environment Variables

### Backend (.env)

```env
PORT=3000
MONGODB_URI=mongodb://localhost:27017/manet
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret_key
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=7d
NODE_ENV=development

SESSION_SECRET=your_session_secret
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret
GOOGLE_CALLBACK_URL=http://localhost:3000/api/auth/google/callback

# Email (for password reset)
EMAIL_HOST=smtp.gmail.com
EMAIL_PORT=587
EMAIL_USER=your_email@gmail.com
EMAIL_PASS=your_app_password
EMAIL_FROM=maNet <your_email@gmail.com>

# Firebase (for push notifications)
FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
FIREBASE_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
FIREBASE_CLIENT_EMAIL=your_client_email
```

## 📊 Performance

- **API Response Time:** < 50ms average
- **WebSocket Latency:** < 100ms
- **Database Queries:** Optimized with indexes
- **Security:** 0 known vulnerabilities
- **Code Quality:** ESLint configured

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a personal portfolio project, but feedback and suggestions are welcome!

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 👤 Author

**Christos**
- Building in public on LinkedIn
- Portfolio project demonstrating full-stack development skills
- Actively seeking junior developer remote opportunities

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- React Native community
- Node.js ecosystem
- MongoDB documentation
- Socket.IO tutorials
- Firebase documentation
- **Claude Code by Anthropic** - Used as an LLM development assistant for debugging support, architectural review, and identifying edge cases. All implementation, integration, and final technical decisions were made and validated by me.
- Open source contributors

## 📞 Contact & Support

- **Issues:** [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/manetosx/manet/issues)
- **LinkedIn:** Share your thoughts on my posts!

---

<div align="center">

**Built with ❤️ as a learning project and portfolio piece**

**All 5 Phases Complete!** 🎉

⭐ Star this repo if you find it interesting!

</div>
